Class.Extras
------------

This file contains a few basic functionalities that are useful for many types of classes. You can add the functionality in these extras to any one of your classes easily by using `Implements` mutator.

[Here are the docs for Class.Extras.js](http://docs.mootools.net/Class/Class.Extras)

### The Chain Class

Chaining is a pretty clever way to set up a list of functions you want to execute in a given order without actually executing them yet. Then, each time you call the method `.callChain()`, the next function will execute. The `Chain` class can be used as a stand-alone class, but that's not what it's really for. Instead it is designed to be implemented into other classes.

Here's what it looks like on its own:

	var x = new Chain();
	var one = function(){alert('1')};
	var two = function(){alert('2')};
	x.chain(one);
	x.chain(two);
	x.callChain(); // alert '1'
	x.callChain.delay(2000, x); // wait 2 secs, alert '2'

Chaining is much more useful when you call `chain` on an executed function, and then subsequent chains will fire automatically as the previous one completes.

#### Example

	<div id="chainExample" style="width: 100px; height: 100px; border: 1px solid black"></div>

#### JS

	var myFx = new Fx.Tween('chainExample');
	myFx.start('opacity', 1, 0).chain(function(){
		myFx.start('opacity', 0, 1);
	}).chain(function(){
		myFx.start('opacity', 1, 0);
	}).chain(function(){
		myFx.start('opacity', 0, 1);
	});

In order for this to work, you must implement `Chain` into your own class and call the `.callChain`  method within your class when it safe for the next chained step to be called. Here's a simple example that illustrates the concept

#### JS
	var Blinker = new Class({
		Implements: Chain,
		initialize: function(element){
			this.element = $(element);
			this.count = 0;
		},
		blink: function(num){
		            if (num) this.count = num;
			if (this.count) {
				var currentlyVisible = element.getStyle('visibility') == 'visible');
				element.setStyle('visibility', currentlyVisible?'hidden':'visible'); //toggle it
				this.blink.delay(200, this); //put it back
				this.count--;
			} else {
				this.callChain(); //we're done blinking!
			}
			return this;
		}
	});

	var myBlinker = new Blinker('myElement');
	myBlinker.blink(10).chain(function(){
		alert('finished blinking!');
	});

Ok, this may be a little hard to grok, so I'll walk you through it. `Chain` contains the member functions `chain` and `callChain` (and also `clearChain`). We use `Implement` to add the functionality of `Chain` to `Blinker`. So now `Blinker` has `.chain` and `.callChain`.

`Blinker` has a method called `.blink` that iterates hiding and unhiding the elemnt. When the number of blinks specified has occurred, it ends the effect and executes `.callChain`. This fires whatever function is next in the chain. So in my example that we started with (the opacity effect up above a bit) I call `.chain` and fade the element to 0 and back to 1, I'm chaining up instructions and as each effect completes the next function gets executed.

The Events Class
----------------

An "Utility" Class, its methods can be implemented with the `Implements` mutator into any other Class.

`Events` lets you add custom events to any class you create. Events are fired if something has happend, for example when a user interacts with something ('drag', 'close', 'pick'), or when something has loaded ('load', 'complete', 'success' or perhaps 'failure'). By using Events you can decouple certain parts of your code to prevent highly integrated code but instead have modular and reusable classes.

MooTools implements `Events` into a lot of its classes (these are always defined in the docs). Here's an example using `Fx.Tween`:

#### Example

	<div id="eventFxExample" style="width: 100px; height: 100px; border: 1px solid black"></div>

#### JS

	var myFx = new Fx.Tween('eventFxExample').addEvent('complete', function(){
		alert('the effect is completed');
	}).addEvent('complete', function(){
		alert('I told you the effect is completed');
	});

	myFx.start('opacity', 0,1);
	/* upon completion it will display the 2 alerts */

	/* you can add events at any time */
	myFx.addEvent('complete', function(){
	  alert('seriously, it\'s over');
	});
	myFx.start('opacity', 0,1);

The `Events` class is something you can integrate into your own classes. You can define any event that you want, though typically you'll want to have 'standard' events like:

* start
* complete
* failure
* cancel
* stateChange
* etc.

To integrate the `Events` class into your own class, you have to do two things: implement the `Events` class into your class, and pepper your `Class` with calls to the events to fire them.

When you fire an event, it can take three arguments:

* type - the type of event ("complete", "start", etc.)
* args - array of arguments or a single argument
* delay - an integer representing the milliseconds to wait before firing the event

`Options` has `Events` integration, that is only if an option begins with `on` followed by a capital letter, this function will be added to the other events with `addEvent`. This is very useful for default events or class initiations. See the `Options` section below for more information about the `Options` class.

#### JS

	var MyClass = new Class({
		// tell the class which things to implement
		// here we include Options and Events
		Implements: [Options, Events],
		options: {
			defaultVal: 'something',/*
			onStart: function(element){},
			onComplete: function(element){}*/
		},
		initialize: function(element, options){
			this.element = element;
			this.setOptions(options);
			this.run();
		},
		run: function(){
			// THIS PART IS THE INTERESTING BIT
			this.fireEvent('start', [this.element], 10);
			// ..do some things
			// ...now you're done
			this.fireEvent('complete', [this.element], 10);
		}
	});


Then, when this class is instantiated, you can pass in functions to execute when the events fire:

#### JS

	var instanceOfMyClass = new MyClass(
		"ABC",
		{
			defaultVal: 'my default val',
			onStart: function(element){alert('starting with ' + element);},
			onComplete: function(element){alert('finished with ' + element);}
		}
	);

We can pass more than one argument to an event by using an array:

#### JS

	var myClass = new Class({
		...
		this.fireEvent('complete', [element, 'complete']);
		...
	});
	...
	function alertStateChange(element, eventName){
		alert(eventName + ': ' + element);
	};
	var instanceOfMyClass = new myClass({
		defaultVal: 'my default val',
		onStart: alertStateChange,
		onComplete: alertStateChange
	});


The Options Class
-----------------

You can set the default options of a class by just using `Object.merge` like so:

#### JS

	var myClass = new Class({
		initialize: function(options){
		this.options = Object.merge({
				elements: [],
				startIndex: 0
			}, options || {});
		}
	});


In the above example, I have some default values - `elements` (an empty array) and `startIndex` at zero. If the user instantiates this object thusly:

#### JS

	var instanceOfMyClass = new myClass();

This instance will have these default values as `this.options.elements` and `this.options.startIndex`. If they instantiate the object this way:

#### JS

	var instanceOfMyClass = new myClass({
		elements: $$('div p'), //all the paragraphs in divs
		startIndex: 3 //start on the 4th element
	});

...then they will overwrite these defaults.

The `Options` class does this for you:

#### JS

	var myClass = new Class({
		Implements: Options,
		options: {
			elements: [],
			startIndex: 0
		},
		initialize: function(options){
			/* it doesn't matter if the user passes
			   in no value for options */
			this.setOptions(options);
		}
	});

But wait! There's more! The other thing that the `Options` class does is cycle through all your options looking for any option that begins with "on" and automatically add that event to your class. So if your class, instead, looked like this:

#### JS

	var myClass = new Class({
		Implements: [Options, Events],
		options: {
			elements: [],
			startIndex: 0/*,
			onStart: function(){}*/
		},
		initialize: function(options){
			this.setOptions(options);
			this.fireEvent('start', this.element);
		}
	});


Then there would be an event fired for `start` using the `this.fireEvent` function in the Events class. In this example, I set `onStart` to an empty function and I even commented the option out. So empty default events do not have to be in the `options` object, but it's generally a good practice and useful for documentation. You could even set the passed arguments like `function(event, element, index){}`.
