Types
-----

Types are the fundamentals or the building blocks of JavaScript, and thus of MooTools. Besides the standard JavaScript Language functionality and methods MooTools adds some more very useful utilities to make your life easier.

These standard building bocks, or Types are:

- String [docs](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/String) [MDC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/Global_Objects/String)
- Function [docs](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/Function) [MDC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
- Array [docs](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/Array) [MDC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
- Object [docs](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/Object) [MDC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
- Number [docs](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/Number) [MDC](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/Global_Objects/Number)

In JavaScript these types are all objects under the native variables `String`, `Function`, `Array`, `Object` or `Number`.

Besides those there is the `Date` type, which is part of the JavaScript language. There are also types added by MooTools, like `Event` in MooTools Core or `URI`, `Table` or `Hash` in MooTools More.

#### JS

	true // boolean
	'hi' // string
	function(first, second){ return first + second; } // function
	['a', 'b', 'bar', 'foo', 1] // array
	{name: 'C-3PO', 'Gender' Masculine programming} // object
	20 // number

Before we continue it's important to make a distinction between functions that are properties of a native Type (`Array.foo()`) and functions that are common on all instances of that Type (`[1,2,3].foo()`). The former is just a regular function assigned to the namespace of that type (`Array.foo = function(){}`) while the latter are methods of every instance of that type. These methods are inherited from the prototype.

#### JS

	'	a bit too spacy	\n'.trim();

	Number.random();


In the example above the first line is using a String method. The string between the quotes is the subject or sometimes called the *thisArg* or *self*. When you will create your own methods this will map to the `this` keyword.

The second line shows a random number generator which is just a function which is hosted on the Number object. Because it is on the Number object it is less likely to conflict with other functions and it is directly clear what the function does, returning a random number instead of a random item in an array for example.

### From

Because of JavaScripts dynamic typed nature any variable can contain any type. Sometimes though you just want to turn that NodeList or `arguments` variable into an Array, or that text-field input with a number into a instance of Number so you could use the Number methods, or the other way around from Number to String.

This is exactly why the `from` functions on each (except `Object`) type exists. Some examples:

#### JS

	Number.from('1e3'); // 1000
	String.from(1.5); // '1.5'

	(function(){
		Array.from(arguments); // [1, 2, 3]
	})(1, 2, 3);

	Function.from(false); // function(){ return false; }


### Generics

Generics are Type methods propagated as functions on the native object. What this basically means is that it is possible to use a method, say `Array.prototype.each` as a function `Array.each`. The *thisArg* of the *method* is used as first argument passed in the function. The additional arguments are appended.

#### JS

	// Instead of writing this:
	[1, 2, 3].each(function(value, key){
		console.log(value);
	});

	// You could write
	Array.each(function([1, 2, 3], function(value, key){
		console.log(value);
	});

	// But especially when the object does not have the method yet
	(function(subject){
		var args = Array.slice(arguments, 1);
		console.log(args);
	})(1, 2, 3, 4); // [2, 3, 4]

In the first example, which uses `Array.each` it is not really necessary to use the Generic form of the function yet because you know it is an array with the `.each` method. However with the last example, with the `arguments` object, this is not the case. The `arguments` object, among others like a `NodeList`, can act as an array or collection, but do not have the methods. Using the Generic form solves this by using it as it would be an array.


### Extending Types

By default JavaScript and MooTools together already provide lots of useful utility methods on those types. If one of those still doesn't solve your problem, you can do it yourself! With the `implement` and `extend` methods you can extend those types very easily.

`extend` will accept two arguments, the function name and the function, or an object where the names and functions are mapped as the key-value combinations. It will add the function on the Type object, for example like `Number.random()`.

`implement` will add methods on the Type its prototype. Besides that it will generalize the method into a function on the type object.

#### JS

	String.implement({
		repeat: function(times){
			var string = '';
			while (times--) string += this;
			return string;
		}
	});

	// Usage
	var str = 'ping ';
	str.repeat(3); // 'ping ping ping'

	// Generic usage
	String.repeat(1, 3); // '111'
