Array
-----

Here is [the documentation for Array.js](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Types/Array).

### Array.from

`Array.from` tries to convert any value into a real array. This function is especially useful for the `arguments` object or NodeLists which are returned by `document.querySelectorAll`.

#### JS

	Array.from(document.body.childNodes);


### Array.each

`Array.each()` iterates through the array executing the specified function for each item in the array. The anonymous function can be passed two arguments (optional) - the item and the index.

`.each()` is really just a pointer to `.forEach`, which MooTools implements for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .forEach](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/forEach).

#### JS
	['one', 'two', 'three'].each(function(number){
	  alert(number);
	});

	['one', 'two', 'three'].each(function(number, index){
		// let's just alert the first one
		if (index == 0) alert(number);
	});


`.each()` takes an optional second option for binding. This is really useful when your function is in an object:

#### JS

	var exampleObj = {
		setNumbers: function(numbers){
			this.numbers = numbers;
		},
		calcNumbers: function(){
			var result = []
			this.numbers.each(function(number, index){
				result.push(this.timesTwo(number * 2));
			}, this); // here is the interesting bit
		},
		timesTwo(number){
			return number * 2;
		}
	};
	exampleObj.setNumbers([1, 2, 3]);
	exampleObj.calcNumbers();
	alert(exampleObj.numbers); // alerts 2,4,6


The above example is somewhat convoluted but it demonstrates where and why you use binding this way. If you wanted to access `this.timesTwo` inside the `.each(function...` then `this` would refer to the `this.numbers` array, not your `exampleObj`, where `timesTwo` is defined. So with `.each()`, you call a function and you can optionally bind an object to the `this` inside that function.

See [Function:bind](01-function#function.bind) for more details on binding.

### Array.invoke

Returns an array with the named method applied to the array's contents.

#### JS

	var foo = [4, 8, 15, 16, 23, 42];
	var bar = foo.invoke('limit', 10, 30);  // bar is now [10, 10, 15, 16, 23, 30]

`Array.invoke` is also very useful in combination with the `implement` method. With invoke you could implement the same methods into multiple classes or objects:

#### JS

	[Document, Element].invoke('implement', {
		find: function(selector){
			return // ... some search logic
		}
	});


### Array.every

`.every()` tests all the elements in an array to see if they pass; returns `true` if they all do, otherwise `false`.

MooTools implements `.every` for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .every](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/every).

#### JS

	[1, 2, 3].every(function(num){
		return typeof num == 'number';
	}); // returns true because 1, 2, and 3 are all numbers

	[1, 2, 'foo'].every(function(num){
		return typeof == 'number';
	}); // returns false because 'foo' is not a number


### Array.filter

MooTools implements `.filter()` for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .filter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter).

`Array.filter` calls a provided callback function once for each element in an array, and constructs a new array of all the values for which callback returns a value that evaluates `true`. The callback is invoked only for indexes of the array which have assigned values; it is not invoked for indexes which have been deleted or which have never been assigned values. Array elements which do not pass the callback test are simply skipped, and are not included in the new array.

Callback is invoked with three arguments: the value of the element, the index of the element, and the Array object being traversed.

	var isBigEnough = function(element, index, array) {
		return (element >= 10);
	};
	[12, 5, 8, 130, 44].filter(isBigEnough);
	// returns [12, 130, 44]

`Array.filter` can take a second argument for binding:

#### JS

	var exampleObj = {
		setNumbers: function(numbers){
			this.numbers = numbers;
		},
		filterValue: 10,
		filterBigEnough: function(){
			this.numbers = this.numbers.filter(this.isBigEnough, this);
			/*	the second arg filter() binds this (exampleObj)	*/
		},
		isBigEnough: function(element, index, array) {
			return (element >= this.filterValue);
			/*	this has to == exampleObj	*/
		}
	};

	exampleObj.setNumbers([1, 10, 100]);
	exampleObj.filterBigEnough();
	console.log(exampleObj.numbers);
	/*	logs [10,100]	*/


### Array.clean

`Array.clean` removes from the array all items that are `null` or `undefined`.

	[0, 3, null, false, true, 'foo', ''].clean(); //returns [0, 3, false, true, 'foo', '']


### Array.indexOf

`.indexOf()` finds the first index of an object within an array; returns `-1` if no match is found.

MooTools implements `.indexOf` for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .indexOf](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/indexOf).

#### JS

	['apple', 'lemon', 'banana'].indexOf('apple');
	// index is 0


Returns -1 if the item is not found.

`.indexOf` can take a second argument as an offset of where to look:

	['apple','lemon','banana'].indexOf('apple', 1);
	// index is -1, because apple is not found in indexes >= 1


### Array.map

Applies a function to each item in an array and returns an array with the results of each application.

MooTools implements `.map` for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map).

#### JS

	[1, 2, 3].map(function(num){
	  return num * 2;
	}); //returns [2, 4, 6];

Just like `.each`, `.map` takes an optional binding element as its second input. Also, the function you call in `.map` can take two inputs; the object and its index.

#### JS

	var exampleObj = {
		setNumbers: function(numbers){
			this.numbers = numbers;
		},
		multiplier: 2,
		calcNumbers: function(){
			this.numbers = this.numbers.map(function(number){
				return number * this.multiplier;
				/* note here that we return the result of the calculation
				also note that we refer to "this", so we need to bind this
				function */
			}, this); /* here is the interesting bit */
			/* .map will execute this on each item in the
			array, and then return the entire result set. */
		}
	};
	exampleObj.setNumbers([1, 2, 3]);
	exampleObj.calcNumbers();
	alert(exampleObj.numbers); // alerts 2,4,6


### Array.some

`.some()` tests all the elements in an array to see if they pass; returns `true` if **any** do, otherwise `false`.

MooTools implements .some for browsers that don't already support it. Here's [the documentation at Mozilla on .some](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/some).


#### JS

	[1, 2, 'foo'].some(function(num){
		return typeof num == 'number';
	}); // returns true because 1 and 2 are numbers, even though 'foo' isn't


### Array.associate

	var Animals = ['Cat', 'Dog', 'Bird', 'Lizard'];
	var Speech = ['Meow', 'Bark', 'Chirp', 'Mute'];
	var Speeches = Animals.associate(Speech);
	// Speeches['Meow'] is now Cat.
	// Speeches['Bark'] is now Dog.
	//...


### Array.link

This somewhat abstract method helps you map an array of values to an object based on their type. It only works if theres no more than one of each type in the array (so there's no more than one string, or number, etc). It's useful if you want to have a method or function accept different kinds of values in different orders. Here's the example from the MooTools docs:


#### JS

	var el = document.createElement('div');
	var arr2 = [100, 'Hello', {foo: 'bar'}, el, false];
	arr2.link({
		myNumber: Type.isNumber,
		myElement: Type.isElement,
		myObject: Type.isObject,
		myString: Type.isString,
		myBoolean: function(obj){ return obj != null; }
	});
	/*
	returns {
		myNumber: 100,
		myElement: el,
		myObject: {foo: 'bar'},
		myString: 'Hello',
		myBoolean: false
	};
	*/

MooTools uses `Array.link` when it wants to create a method that can accept numerous types of values. Rather than pass in `null`s for values you don't wish to specify, you can just leave them out. `Array.link` lets you map the values that were passed in to the appropriate keys.


### Array.contains

`Array.contains` checks if the precense of an item in the array. It will return `true` if the item is in the array and otherwise it will return `false` if the item is not in the array.

#### JS

	['a', 'b', 'c'].contains('a'); // returns true
	['a', 'b', 'c'].contains('d'); // returns false


### Array.append

Appends the passed array to the end of the current array.

#### JS

	var Animals = ['Cat', 'Dog', 'Koala'];
	Animals.append(['Lizard', 'Cow]); //A nimals is now: ['Cat', 'Dog', 'Koala', 'Lizard', 'Cow'];


### Array.getLast

#### JS

	['Cat', 'Dog', 'Bird', 'Lizard'].getLast(); // 'Lizard'

### Array.getRandom

Returns a random item from the array.

#### JS

	['Cat', 'Dog', 'Bird', 'Lizard'].getRandom();


### Array.include

This works like `Array.combine()` but you pass it a value to add to the array if it's not already present, not an array to merge:

#### JS

	['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog'].include('Cat'); // returns ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog', 'Cat']
	['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog'].include('Dog'); // returns ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog']

### Array.combine

This works like `Array.include()` execept that it takes as an argument another array, merging the two and excluding duplicates.

#### JS

	var animals = ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog'];
	animals.combine(['Cat', 'Dog']); //animals = ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog', 'Cat'];


### Array.erase

#### JS

	['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog', 'Cat', 'Dog'].erase('Dog') // returns ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Cat']
	['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog'].erase('Cat') // returns ['Cow', 'Pig', 'Dog']


### Array.empty

Empties an array of all its values. Basically the equivalent of setting the variable's value to that of a new array.

#### JS

	var x = [1, 2, 3];
	x.empty();
	//same as
	x = [];

It's slightly faster and better at preserving memory, but not so much that you'd notice the difference.

### Array.flatten

This shortcut takes an array of arrays and turns it into a single, flat array.

#### JS

	var myArray = [1,2,3,[4,5, [6,7]], [[[8]]]];
	var newArray = myArray.flatten(); //newArray is [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]


### Array.pick

Returns the first defined value of the array passed in, or `null`.

#### JS

	[null, undefined, 'My precious'].pick(); // 'My precious'


### Array.rgbToHex

Takes an array with three color values and converts them to an RGB value; mostly used by MooTools to set css color values.

#### JS

	[99, 100, 101].rgbToHex() //returns '#636465'


### Array.hexToRgb

Takes an array with three hexidecimal color values and converts them to an rgb value; mostly used by MooTools to set css color values.

#### JS

	[63,  64, 65].hexToRgb() //returns 'rgb(99,100,101)'
