Selecting Elements
------------------

Here is [the documentation for Element](http://mootools.net/docs/core/Element/Element).

The Element object gets a LOT of love in MooTools. Most of the functions in the Element object are pretty self explanatory. *Element.get('tag')* does what you'd think it would.






===== Element.toQueryString =====
Returns a query string of all the key/values for the form elements inside the element (doesn't have to be a form but typically is):

<code javascript>
$(myForm).toQueryString(); //foo=bar&something=else...
</code>



===== Element.inject =====
Pretty much what it looks like. Injects the element relative to the one passed in as an argument.

<code html>
html:
<div id="myElement"></div>
<div id="mySecondElement"></div>
<script>$('mySecondElement').inject('myElement', 'before');</script>
resulting html:
<div id="mySecondElement"></div>
<div id="myElement"></div>
</code>

//.inject// is basically //.appendChild// on the passed in element:
<code html>
html:
<div id="myElement"></div>
<div id="mySecondElement"></div>
<script>$('mySecondElement').inject('myElement');</script>
resulting html:
<div id="myElement"><div id="mySecondElement"></div></div>
</code>

//.inject::top//:
<code html>
html:
<div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
<script>$('childTwo').inject('myElement', 'top');</script>
resulting html:
<div id="myElement">
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
</code>

===== Element.dispose =====
Removes the element from the DOM:
<code javascript><div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
<script>$('childTwo').dispose();</script>
resulting html:
<div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div></code>

Note that disposed elements can still be referenced and even inserted back into the DOM:

<code javascript>
var child2 = $('childTwo');
child2.dispose();
//...later
child2.inject('someNewParent');
</code>

===== Element.destroy =====
This is the same as Element.dispose, except it removes the element from memory so that it can no longer be referenced or re-injected into the DOM.


===== Element.clone =====
Clones the //Element// and returns the copy:

<code javascript>
var clone = $('myElement').clone().inject('myElement');
//clones the Element and append the clone after the Element.
</code>

//Element.clone// takes two arguments (both //boolean//s): //true// for the first one will clone the node's children (this is the default), //false// will only clone the node, and the second argument will keep the element's ID, otherwise the cloned node is returned without one (this is because it is not legal HTML to have to Elements in the DOM w/ the same ID):

<code javascript><div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
<script>$('myElement').clone(false, true).inject('myElement');</script>
resulting html:
<div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
<div id="myElement"></div>
</code>


===== Element.adopt =====
This is just like //.inject//, but in reverse (it appends the supplied element to the applied one). Note that //adopt// can take more than one element to adopt (//Element.adopt(child1, child2, etc)//):
<code html>
html:
<div id="myElement"></div>
<div id="mySecondElement"></div>
<script>$('mySecondElement').adopt('myElement');</script>
resulting html:
<div id="mySecondElement"><div id="myElement"></div></div>
</code>

===== Element.wraps =====
//wraps// will move the element from its current location and insert it as the new parent of the wrapped element.


<code html>
	<div id="child"></div>
	<hr/>
	<div id="newParent"></div>
</code>

<code javascript>
$('newParent').wraps('child');
</code>

result:
<code html>
	<div id="newParent">
		<div id="child"></div>
	</div>
	<hr/>
</code>

===== Element.grab =====
Sorta like //wraps//, except that //grab// moves the child into the parent. This is identical to //adopt//, but //adopt// allows you to pass it more than one element.

<code html>
	<div id="child"></div>
	<hr/>
	<div id="newParent"></div>
</code>

<code javascript>
$('newParent').grab('child');
</code>

result:
<code html>
	<hr/>
	<div id="newParent">
		<div id="child"></div>
	</div>
</code>


===== Element.replaces =====
<code javascript>
$('myNewElement').replaces($('myOldElement')); 
</code>
//$('myOldElement')// is gone, and //$('myNewElement')// is in its place.


===== Element.appendText =====
<code html>
<div id="myElement">hey</div>
<script>
	$('myElement').appendText(' howdy'); 
	//myElement innerHTML is now "hey howdy"
</script>
</code>


===== Element.addClass, .removeClass, .hasClass, .toggleClass =====
These do pretty much what they look like they'd do.

<html><p id="cssClassesExample">This paragraph has id = cssClassesExample for the examples below.</p></html>
<code javascript exec>
/*does the paragraph above have the className blue?*/
$('cssClassesExample').hasClass('blue');
</code>
<code javascript exec>
/*let's add it*/
$('cssClassesExample').addClass('blue');
</code>
<code javascript exec>
/*now let's remove it*/
$('cssClassesExample').removeClass('blue');
</code>
<code javascript exec>
/*now let's toggle it on and off*/
$('cssClassesExample').toggleClass('blue');
</code>

===== Element.match =====
Returns true of the passed in selector would include the element.

<code javascript>
$(el).match('div'); //returns true if el is a div
//if you have Selectors.js included
$(el).match('div#someId p.someClass'); //true of el matches
</code>

===== Element.getProperties, removeProperty, removeProperties =====
<code javascript exec>
	/*fetch info about the log on this page*/
	$E('img').getProperties('alt', 'src', 'id');
	//returns {alt: 'a cnet developer blog', src:'http//clienside...', id: 'redball'}
</code>
<code javascript exec>
	$E('img').removeProperty('alt');//img no longer has alt value
	//you can use removeProperties to remove more than one at a time.
</code>

===== Element.set('html') =====
MooTools 1.1 had //Element.setHTML// but now uses //Element.set('html', newHtml)//:

<html><p id="setHTMLExample">Let's change this content...</p></html>
<code javascript exec>
$('setHTMLExample').set('html', 'see? changed!');
</code>
You might ask yourself why use this or even something like //.get// when javascript has methods to do this on it's own; we're just swapping one syntax for another. You could just as easily do:
<code javascript>
$('setHTMLExample').innerHTML = 'see? changed!';
</code>
So why do it? Well, by making this function available you can do things like call //.delay// and //.pass// in more complex applications. It also allows for chaining things together like so:

<code javascript>
$('myExample').set('example').addClass('something').removeClass('somethingElse').addEvent(....) etc.
</code>

It also helps protect us from browser inconsistencies.

===== Element.get('tag') =====
<code javascript exec>
$('redball').get('tag') // returns 'img'
</code>

===== Element.getNext, .getPrevious, .getFirst, .getLast =====
These all get neighboring elements relative to the one you apply this method do.

Here's the html in the example below:
<code html>
<ul id="getSiblingExamples">
	<li id="firstLI">first</li>
	<li id="secondLI">second</li>
	<li id="thirdLI">third</li>
</ul>
</code>

<html><ul id="getSiblingExamples">
	<li id="firstLI">first</li>
	<li id="secondLI">second</li>
	<li id="thirdLI">third</li>
</ul></html>
<code javascript exec>
$('secondLI').getNext(); //third li
</code>
<code javascript exec>
$('secondLI').getPrevious(); //first li
</code>
<code javascript exec>
$('getSiblingExamples').getFirst(); //first li
</code>
<code javascript exec>
$('getSiblingExamples').getLast(); //third li
</code>

All of these methods can take selectors, too:

<code html>
<div id="getSiblingExample2">
	<p id="firstSibling">first</p>
	<div id="secondSibling">second</div>
	<b id="thirdSibling">third</b>
</div>
</code>
<html><div id="getSiblingExample2">
	<p id="firstSibling">first</p>
	<div id="secondSibling">second</div>
	<b id="thirdSibling">third</b>
</div></html>

<code javascript exec>
$('firstSibling').getNext('b'); //b#thirdSibling
</code>

===== Element.getParent, .getChildren =====
//.getParent// is really just a wrapper for //$(element.parentNode);// which returns the parent node with all the MooTools element extensions applied to it. //.getChildren// is the same as //element.childNodes//, with each also wrapped with the MooTools element extensions.

<code javascript exec>
$('secondLI').getParent() //gets ul element
</code>
<code javascript exec>
$('getSiblingExamples').getChildren() //gets all the list items
</code>

However, you can also specify a selector when you use these methods which will return only those that match. When used with //getParent// the element's parent will be inspected for a match on the selector, and if it doesn't match, then the element's parent's parent will be inspected and so on up the dom. For children, only direct children will be inspected.

<code javascript exec>
$('secondLI').getParent('div') //get the first parent that's a div
</code>
<code javascript exec>
$('getSiblingExample2').getChildren('b'); //only the bold tags
</code>

===== Element.getElements, .getElement =====
//Element.getElements// gets all the decendents of an element (so, not just the immediate children). You can pass in a selector to filter the group.

<code javascript exec>$('leftCol').getElements('p');</code>

The filter can be any css expression when you include //Selectors.js//, just like //$$//.

//Element.getElement// just returns the first item found.

===== Element.hasChild =====

<code javascript><div id="myElement">
	<div id="childOne"></div>
	<div id="childTwo"></div>
	<div id="childThree"></div>
</div>
<script>$('myElement').hasChild('childOne');//true</script>
</code>


===== Deprecated Methods =====
The following element methods are deprecated:

   * Element.remove (see //Element.dispose//)
   * Element.getValue (see //Element.get('value')//)
   * Element.getHTML/setHTML (see //Element.get('html')// and //Element.set('html')//)
   * Element.replaceWith (see //Element.replaces//)
   * Element.setOpacity (see //Element.setStyle//)
   * Element.getTag (see //Element.get('tag')//)