Element Properties
------------------

===== Element.set =====
You can set events, styles and properties with this shortcut; same syntax as the second argument when calling //new Element//. Basically, any native property is available (src, href, value).
<code javascript>
$(el).set({events: ..., styles: ..., etc.});
//which is the same as
$(el).setStyles({...}).addEvents({...}).etc.
$(myImg).set('src', newUrl);
$(myImg).set('alt', 'The cake is a lie');
</code>


===== Element.get =====
The obverse of //Element.set// is //Element.get//, which retrieves the properties of an element. 

<code javascript>
$(myImg).get('src'); //http://....
</code>

**Note** that //Element.get('value')// will return the value of an element, but only that. It won't, for example, return the selected option's value if you do //mySelect.get('value')//, as //value// is not a property of a select list.

===== Custom Setters / Getters =====
MooTools provides methods to create custom methods used with set. This goes hand in hand with element storage (see the next topic below) and is used to create "built in" instances of //Fx.Tween//, //Fx.Morph//, //Request// and others. To reference these "built in" references you use the storage methods (again, see below), but you can set the options for these things with set and get. For instance, if you want to use the "built in" tween method for an element you would do:

<code javascript>
$(el).tween('opacity', 0); //fade out
</code>

If you wanted to set the options for this "built in" method, you would do:

<code javascript>
$(el).set('tween', {
	duration: 1000
});
</code>

You can define your own "built in" instances and use //set// and //get// to configure them. I won't go into how to do that here, but you can look at the source for //Fx.Tween// to get an idea of how it's done.

==== Default Custom Getters / Setters ====
Element comes with a few default custom getters. The ones for the effects (like //Fx.Tween// in the example above) are added when you include //Fx.Tween// and are covered elsewhere. But Element.js includes several defaults:

   * html - gets and sets the inner html
   * text - gets and sets the text value of a node
   * tag - gets the tag of a node
   * value - gets the value of an input

===== Element.getSelected =====
Returns the selected options in a select list (note, it's always an array):

<code javascript>
$(mySelect).getSelected(); //an array of options that are selected
</code>

===== Element.getProperties, removeProperty, removeProperties =====
<code javascript exec>
	/*fetch info about the log on this page*/
	$E('img').getProperties('alt', 'src', 'id');
	//returns {alt: 'a cnet developer blog', src:'http//clienside...', id: 'redball'}
</code>
<code javascript exec>
	$E('img').removeProperty('alt');//img no longer has alt value
	//you can use removeProperties to remove more than one at a time.
</code>

===== Element.set('html') =====
MooTools 1.1 had //Element.setHTML// but now uses //Element.set('html', newHtml)//:

<html><p id="setHTMLExample">Let's change this content...</p></html>
<code javascript exec>
$('setHTMLExample').set('html', 'see? changed!');
</code>
You might ask yourself why use this or even something like //.get// when javascript has methods to do this on it's own; we're just swapping one syntax for another. You could just as easily do:
<code javascript>
$('setHTMLExample').innerHTML = 'see? changed!';
</code>
So why do it? Well, by making this function available you can do things like call //.delay// and //.pass// in more complex applications. It also allows for chaining things together like so:

<code javascript>
$('myExample').set('example').addClass('something').removeClass('somethingElse').addEvent(....) etc.
</code>

It also helps protect us from browser inconsistencies.

===== Element.get('tag') =====
<code javascript exec>
$('redball').get('tag') // returns 'img'
</code>
