===== Element Storage =====
This is probably one of the nicest new features in MooTools 1.2. There's [[http://mootools.net/blog/2008/01/22/whats-new-in-12-element-storage/|a great post about it on the MooTools blog]] that's very instructive. Basically, storage lets you associate something in JavaScript land with a DOM element (or even DOM elements to other DOM elements). It manages all the connections so that you don't have to worry about memory leaks.

This means you can do things like this:

<code javascript>
$(draggable).store('handle', $(handle));
$(form).store('validator', new FormValidator());
$(thumbnail).store('fullSizeImage', $(someImage));
</code>

Previously, when writing code that had a collection of dom elements related to other things, you had to maintain arrays and keep track of the indexes. All the slides in a slideshow related to all their thumbnails, but that meant you had an array of thumbnails and an array of slides. Now you can simplify this greatly.

It also means that you can easily find a class from the element(s) it manages and vice versa. I can do:

<code javascript>
var myForm = $('myForm');
myForm.store('validator', myValidator);
myForm.retrieve('validator'); //get the validator from the form
myValidator.form; //and the form from the validator
</code>

There's more to it than this of course but you get the idea. It's very convenient.

MooTools uses this functionality to store "built in" instances of classes. For example, Fx.Tween:

<code javascript>
$(el).tween('opacity', 0); //fade out
</code>

If you were to use //.tween// to fade back in later, MooTools just retrieves the same instance and fades back in.
